Welcome to the final project of the Nanodegree program.
You'll get to build a backtester using borrow data,
which is widely used in the quant and finance industry.
We had Gordon here, who designed and built the project.
So, Gordon could you tell us a little bit about your experience in building backtesters?
Sure. I built a number of backtesting frameworks over the years.
I think the most important thing that an actual quant fund,
is to have the backtest correspond as closely as
possible to a simulation of how you would actually trade in production,
and to accurately reflect various sources of costs such as market impact.
Also very important, is that you're
aware of when you would have known each piece of data.
If it's the last price of the day for example,
you could not have used it to trade on that day.
The soon as you could have used it is the next day.
So, this project is a pretty good foundation for
what students can do to understand backtesting.
Could you give some suggestions for how they could make
this project their own and add some additional features to it?
Sure. One thing they could try for starters,
is to backtest on different time periods and interpret the final results.
For instance, the year 2007 is quite interesting
because of the quant crisis that occurred in August of 2007.
Two thousand eight is also a unique year because of the financial crisis.
In 2008, we expect market neutral strategies such as
the one we are backtesting here to outperform traditional strategies.
Also, students can try different factors to be
their alphas in addition to the ones that I chose for the project.
Or even better, invent their own alphas and use those,
including ones they've looked at in previous projects in this course.
There are also other ways to combine the alphas.
We can go beyond the simple equal weighted alpha combination that I did here.
For example, by choosing different weights for each alpha
based on some metric that tells us how confident we are in that alpha.
Another way to make your project unique,
is to try to make the transaction cost model more realistic.
For instance, instead of a unique price impact model,
you could try a square root impact model.
To choose the parameters of a square root impact model however,
I'd recommend reading research papers that study this,
because they typically have access to large databases of real trades to fit their model.
One paper I recommend is called,
Crossover from linear to square-Root market impact.
That's a good overview of different transaction costs models,
and also references other papers that are useful.
Great. Thanks for your advice on how students can customize the project.
Is there any other advice you'd like to give to the students?
Wherever you choose, I just hope you have fun with the project and good luck.
Great. Thanks Gordon.
Good luck to you students.